## 2. From piControl to Eocene on MONSOON3    
We copy the GC5-central piControl suite u-dv344 as a new suite u-dv769.    


### 2.1 ancil_list
Based on the ancil_version scripts of Seb, I try to setup the Eocene ancil_files in u-dv769. However, there is some significant differences in NEMO ancil set bettween the GC3 and GC5 configurations: 
#### 2.1.1 NEMO
##### 2.1.1.a Bathmetry and domain_CFG (configuration change)
In GC3 the bathmetry is controlled by the ancil_file `BATHY_METER`, while in GC5 it is included in the `domain_cfg.nc`. We may need to build a Eocene `domain_cfg.nc` based on the bathymetry file, so we can make it consistency.   
I am trying to generate it with the `DOMAINcfg` tools.    
Some repository for reference：
[A example for regional model](https://github.com/NOC-MSM/Regional-NEMO-Medusa)
See its [Wiki](https://github.com/NOC-MSM/Regional-NEMO-Medusa/wiki/) for usage.
[Official resource](https://forge.nemo-ocean.eu/nemo/nemo.git)

My attemption:
1. [On Archer2] git clone https://forge.nemo-ocean.eu/nemo/nemo.git ./nemo-main
2. cd nemo-main
3. load the demanded modules:
```
                 module load cray-hdf5-parallel
                 module load cray-netcdf-hdf5parallel
```
4. cd tools; ./maketools -m X86_ARCHER2-Cray -n DOMAINcfg
5. vim `namelist_cfg`, use the parameters as below:
```
!-----------------------------------------------------------------------
&namcfg        !   parameters of the configuration
!-----------------------------------------------------------------------
   !
   ln_e3_dep   = .true.    ! =T : e3=dk[depth] in discret sens.
   !                       !      ===>>> will become the only possibility in v4.0
   !                       ! =F : e3 analytical derivative of depth function
   !                       !      only there for backward compatibility test with v3.6
      !                      ! if ln_e3_dep = T
      ln_dept_mid = .false.  ! =T : set T points in the middle of cells
   !                       !
   cp_cfg      =  "orca1"  !  name of the configuration
   jp_cfg      =       1   !  resolution of the configuration
   jpidta      =     362   !  1st lateral dimension ( >= jpi )
   jpjdta      =     332   !  2nd    "         "    ( >= jpj )
   jpkdta      =      75   !  number of levels      ( >= jpk )
   Ni0glo      =     362   !  1st dimension of global domain --> i =jpidta
   Nj0glo      =     332   !  2nd    -                  -    --> j  =jpjdta
   jpkglo      =      75
   jperio      =       4   !  lateral cond. type (between 0 and 6)
   ln_domclo = .true.      ! computation of closed sea masks (see namclo)
```
6. `sbatch` the `sub` script shown as below:
```
#!/bin/bash -l
#
#SBATCH --job-name=DOMAINcfg_test
#SBATCH --output=logs/DOMAINcfg_%j.out
#SBATCH --error=logs/DOMAINcfg_%j.err
#SBATCH --time=60:00
#SBATCH --chdir=/work/n02/n02/an25872/NEMO_SRC/nemo-main/tools/DOMAINcfg
#SBATCH --partition=serial
#SBATCH --qos=serial
#SBATCH --account=n02-P2F
#SBATCH --exclusive=mcs
#SBATCH --ntasks=1
#SBATCH --mem=100G
#SBATCH --export=NONE

srun -n 1 ./make_domain_cfg.exe
```
7. You got the domain_cfg.nc and mesh_mask.

##### 2.1.1.b viscosity coefficient (configuration change)
In GC3 the viscosity coefficient in tropical area is modified by the `AHMCOEF` file, while in GC5 it is turned into a 3d distribution documented in `eddy_viscosity_3D.nc`. Therefore a new script should be build to generate the 3D distribution of viscosity which is adapted to Eocene mask.    
In the GC3 version, the viscosity file is generated by the script of Charlie (which is documented in the idiot's guidance). Refer to `/home/users/cwilliams2011/analysis.d/projects.d/sweet.d/gc31n96orca1_eo.d/build.d/ocean.d/ahmcoef.py.` on JASMIN for further detail.      
**resolution**:      

- Tentative approach: we haven't got the scripts to generate the `eddy_viscosity_3D.nc`. As a tentative resolution, we switch `nn_ahm_ijk_t` at `nemo > namelist > Dynamics options (namdyn) > Lateral diffusion (namdyn_ldf)` to `Constant (0)`.
- [Script from Dave](https://github.com/DaveStorkey/Daves-python/blob/50b50a603f8a7a025cd8b0fc9)
[reference article from Dave](https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/520822/1/Storkey.pdf?utm_source=chatgpt.com)
##### 2.1.1.c runoff or river (two kinds of coupling scheme)
In the GC5, the UM supports two kinds of coupling methods: the 1D method and 2D method. In contrast, the GC3.1 only support the 2D method. For paleo suite, the 2D-method should be more suitable. And it avoid the difficulty to generate a `river_number_nemo.nc` which is an ancillary file required by 1D method.    
**resolution**:  
- STEP1 NEMO side:     
To remove the dependence of the NEMO on the `river_number_nemo.nc`. We checked the NEMO source codes. And we found the switch bettween 1D and 2D methods is controled by the parameter `sn_rcv_rnf`. The key code block is shown as below (./OCE/SBC/sbccpl.F90):
```
 559       srcv(jpr_rnf   )%clname = 'O_Runoff'
 560       srcv(jpr_rnf_1d   )%clname = 'ORunff1D'
 561       IF( TRIM( sn_rcv_rnf%cldes ) == 'coupled' .OR. TRIM( sn_rcv_rnf%cldes ) == 'coupled1d' ) THEN
 562          IF( TRIM( sn_rcv_rnf%cldes ) == 'coupled' ) srcv(jpr_rnf)%laction = .TRUE.
 563          IF( TRIM( sn_rcv_rnf%cldes ) == 'coupled1d' ) THEN
 564             srcv(jpr_rnf_1d)%laction = .TRUE.
 565             srcv(jpr_rnf_1d)%dimensions = 1 ! 1D field passed through coupler
 566          END IF
 567          l_rnfcpl              = .TRUE.                      ! -> no need to read runoffs in sbcrnf
 568          ln_rnf                = nn_components /= jp_iam_sas ! -> force to go through sbcrnf if not sas
 569          IF(lwp) WRITE(numout,*)
 570          IF(lwp) WRITE(numout,*) '   runoffs received from oasis -> force ln_rnf = ', ln_rnf
 571       ENDIF
```
So, change the `description` slot of `sn_rcv_rnf` from `coupled1d` to `coupled` at `nemo > namelist > surface boundary condition > Coupled Forcing (namsbc_cpl)`    
Please also note that `ln_rnf` is only used when `ln_cpl` is **False**. `ln_rnf` controls whether the fixed runoff forcing file runoff_1m_nomask.nc is used. The other switch should be turned off is the 'ln_rnf_icb'. It should be set as '.false.'. Or the variable `sofwicb` （ice melt rate of icebergs） will be read from runoff_1m_nomask.nc and force the model.
``

- **STEP2 coupler side**:     
As documented at **16.2** in the [umdp_C02 of vn13.8](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk/doc/um/vn13.8/papers/umdp_C02.pdf), the method for passing runoff information from UM to NEMO through OASIS3-MCT differs between the 1D and 2D approaches.
For 1D method, the {your rose suite}/app/coupled/file/namcouple should include the codes below:
```
759 ############################################################################
760 # TRANSDEF: ATM1 OCN1 76 74 1 ######################################################
761  runoffa model01_ORunff1D 466 3600 1 atmos_restart.nc  EXPORTED
762 #
763  567 1 567 1 riv3 riv3 SEQ=+2
764  R  0  R  0
765 #
766  BLASOLD
767 #
768  1.0 0
769 #
```
For 2D method, the {your rose suite}/app/coupled/file/namcouple should include the codes below:
```
668 ############################################################################
669 # No longer reverse the sign of runoff
670 # TRANSDEF: ATMT OCNT 58 3 1 ######################################################
671  runoff model01_O_Runoff 32 10800 1 atmos_restart.nc   EXPORTED
672  192 144 362 332 atm3 tor1 SEQ=+2
673  P  0  P  2
674 #
675  MAPPING
676 #
677  rmp_atm3_to_tor1_CONSERV_DESTAREA.nc
678 #
679 ############################################################################
```
Please change it in your Eocene suite.    
- **STEP3 UM side**:    
According to the section **16.2** in the [umdp_C02 of vn13.8](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk/doc/um/vn13.8/papers/umdp_C02.pdf), in the the STASH, the  `RIVER OUTFLOW (ATMOS GRID)` should be added at `um > namelist > Model Output Streams > STASH Requests and Profiles > STASH Requests`
```
[namelist:umstash_streq(26004)]
dom_name='DIAG'
isec=26
item=4
package=''
tim_name='TCOUP'
use_name='UPCOUP'
```

##### 2.1.1.d  background bottom turbulent kinetic energy (bfr_coef.nc)
In the GC3 model, this keeps the same with piControl. However, the horizontal variation of bottom friction coefficient `nemo_cice > namelist > NEMO namelist> bottom boundary > bottom friction (nambfr) > lnbfr2d` is set as false. This possibly means the `bfr_coef.nc` is actually not used.    
**resolution**:      
swich the **`ln_boost`** to **`spatially uniform drag coefficient`** at `nemo > namelist > Top and bottom boundaries > bottom friction (nambfr)`.


#### 2.1.2  UM
##### 2.1.2.a Chlorophyll qrclim.sea (potential element)
This is the same in both the piControl and eocene for the GC3 suites. In GC5, it is updated. Not sure whether it will significantly impact the results.
##### 2.1.2.b easyareosol (potential element)
There is some ancil seems to be fixed impcat on radiation of the areosol. Will it influence the model? Where to set it?
##### 2.1.2.c river_number_um (new ancil file)
For UM, there are two ancils requreid: `qrparm.rivseq` and `river_number_um`. The Eocene `qrparm.rivseq` have been applied in GC3, but no `river_number_um` yet.    
**resolution:** please see **2.1.1.c**
##### 2.1.2.d qrclim.rivstor riverstorage (new ancil file)
According to guidance from Charlie. Rivstorage can will spin-up quickly, so just initialize it to zero at `um > namelist > Reconfiguration and Ancillary Control`
##### 2.1.2.e Ozone (potential element)
The dealing of ozone is different in the set of Charlie and Seb. In the Charlie's configuraation it is taken from UKESM1 4xCO2 monthly climatology (85 levels), and zonally palaeotise at every month/level. In contrast, in the Seb's suite, it is calculated by interactive ozone scheme.     
Note that, the ozone scheme is not correctly set in our GC5 suite. Here we simply set it as a PI zonal-mean field. In the future, examine the ozone output to check whether it is used (07/01/2026).    
##### 2.1.2.f Soil roughness (new ancil file)
There is one new ancil file in GC5 named soil_roughness
**resolution**: Switch off the `l_vary_z0m_soil` at `um > namelist > JULES Science Settings > Surface options`
##### 2.1.2.g orog_radiation_parameters, orog_radiation_parameter, qrparm.orog_wavedrag, qrparm.ash (new ancil files)
Some GC5 ancils relevant to the paramterization of the orography. None of them are supplied in GC3. Swich them off?    
**resolution**: the variables needed by these framework have been stored in th `qrparm.orog_mean`. Modify the ancilfilename at `um > namelist > Reconfiguration and Ancillary Control`
##### 2.1.2.h qrclim.aerosols${LEVELS}.nc (new ancil files)
These ancils seem to document fixed areosols by different vertical levels. We may have need to switch the relevant parameterizations off.
##### 2.1.2.i hydrosheds qrparm.hydtop (new ancil files)
This ancil file domucment the Mean Topographic Index and STANDARD DEVN IN TOPOGRAPHIC INDEX, which influence the average wetness tendency of a grid cell and the sub-grid heterogeneity of soil moisture, respectively. They may be used in the JULES.   
In the GC3.1, the two variables in the files is set as constants.    
**resolution**: We set these variables as constants with the ancils management toolkit `Configure ancils and initialise dump fields` at `um > namelist > Reconfiguration and Ancillary Control`.
##### 2.1.2.j qrclim.smow and qrclim.slt (new ancil files)
These two files stores some soil-related fields: soil moisture, deep soil temperature and snow depth. In the suite now, these variables will be directly read from the restart dump. However, if you wanna spinup from the begining, it should be inserted into the suite, by : `um > namelist > Reconfiguration and ancillary control > Configure ancils`…


### Switch off some scheme based on information about present-day bathymetry (Copy from [Idiot's guide to setting up GC3.1 Eocene suite on NEXCS v3.docx](https://uob-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/wb19586_bristol_ac_uk/EcIwjv71mMFDgCKJqzcjB_oBGmRss2O40IxQPvVG6BF4xw?e=vgAmjN)):
- Ocean ancils used by the standard model are listed below - first 4 are based on information about present-day bathymetry which can’t be replicated for the Eocene, so just switch off spatially varying parts of these schemes:
    - Tidal mixing (M2, K1 files): Switch it off tidal mixing scheme  (i.e. remove key_zdftmx in ~/roses/<SUITEID>/app/fcm_make_ocean/rose-app.conf)
    - Geothermal heating: Switch it off (i.e. set ln_trabbc= .false. in /home/d05/<USERNAME>/roses/<SUITEID>/app/nemo_cice/rose-app.conf)
    - Indonesian throughflow mixing: Switch it off (i.e. set ln_tmx_itf=.false. in /home/d05/<USERNAME>/roses/<SUITEID>/app/nemo_cice/rose-app.conf)
    - 2D bottom friction (bfr_coef.nc): Switch it off (i.e. set ln_bfr2d=.false. in /home/d05/<USERNAME>/roses/<SUITEID>/app/nemo_cice/rose-app.conf)
    - Viscosity (ahmcoef.nc) - need to make new file, but using Eocene mask.  Purpose of this file is to reduce viscosity between 20° N/S to increase equatorial current speed and vertical shear.  This can't be applied next to western boundaries for stability reasons, or to ensure the WBCs remained sensible.  So it needs to be 0 between +/- 20°, except for a 10° buffer to the east of any land mass, followed by a 5° ramp from 100 to 0.  To do this, need to take modern version (at /projects/ocean/hadgem3/ancil/ocean/eORCA1v2.2x) then, using this, create new version using code on JASMIN at /home/users/cwilliams2011/analysis.d/projects.d/sweet.d/gc31n96orca1_eo.d/build.d/ocean.d/ahmcoef.py.  Final version needs to be transferred to NEXCS, e.g. at /home/d05/cwilliams/gc31/final_ancils_round2/ocean
    - Iceberg calving & ice sheet basal melt flux need to be switched off (as no ice sheets).  To do this, set in /home/d05/<USERNAME>/roses/<SUITEID>/app/
nemo_cice/rose-app.conf:
        -	ln_icebergs=.false.
        -	nn_isf=0
        -	rn_antarctica_total_fw_flux=0
        -	rn_greenland_total_fw_flux=0
Note: Last two may not be necessary as first two should switch off fluxes and hence their magnitude is irrelevant, but just in case…
    - Postprocessing/archiving may fall over if it tries to archive iceberg files but none exist (because iceberg advection scheme is off), so set in /home/d05/<USERNAME>/roses/<SUITEID>/app/postproc/rose-app.conf:
        - archive_iceberg_trajectory=true
        - nemo_icebergs_rst=true

### xancil
For calendar mismatch, we need to regenerate some ancillary files.    
The `xancil` is the neccessary tool to make it.
[Official guidance for Xancil](https://ncas-cms.github.io/xancil-doc/singlehtml/index.html#document-download)

Below is the location of the xancil executable on different machine:
- ARCHER2: `/work/y07/shared/umshared/bin/xancil`
- MONSOON3: Unknow
- JASMIN: Ask Charlie?


### remapping weights (coupling weights; in progressing)
now
- use the modern remmaping files. (run successfully for one month, crash at second month)
- use the GC3.1 remmaping files and GC3.1 namcouple for GC5 run (u-dv769).   (don't work, missing variables)
In the future, we should replace it by the new coupling weights


### DEBUG

#### potential calendar mismatch
please check the dump and meaning and the **time profiles of the STASH**.

#### variable neos not found
```

  ===>>> : E R R O R

          ===========

 iom_varid, file: ./restart.nc, var: neos not found


  ===>>> : E R R O R

          ===========

 restart, rst_read: variable neos not found. STOP check that the equations of state in the restart file and in the namelist nameos are consistent and use ln_rst_eos=F
```
the old version restart file didn't ouptput `neos`. In additon, the default Equation of State is different between GC3 (nn_eos='polynomial EOS-80') and GC5(nn_eos='polynomial TEOS-10').
**resolution**:    
- Switch to `eos80` at `nemo > namelist > Tracer options (namtra) > Equation of State (nameos)`
- delete the code block about the Eos check     
```
301       IF ( ln_rst_eos ) THEN
302          ! Check equation of state used is consistent with the restart
303          IF( iom_varid( numror, 'neos') == -1) THEN
304             CALL ctl_stop( 'restart, rst_read: variable neos not found. STOP check that the equations of state in the restart file and     in the namelist nameos are consistent and use ln_rst_eos=F')
305          ELSE
306             CALL iom_get( numror, 'neos', zeos, ldxios = lrxios )
307             IF ( INT(zeos) /= neos ) CALL ctl_stop( 'restart, rst_read: equation of state used in restart file differs from namelist n    ameos')
308          ENDIF
309       ENDIF
```
in the src of NEMO `src/nemo/src/OCE/IOM/restart.F90`.     
To modify it, `fcm co` the NEMO src to the local and modify ithe local resource, then apply it to `nemo_sources` at `fcm_make_ocean > env > NEMO and SI3 Sources`.   
In the near future, I will make a FCM branch for this modification.    
- exclude `toce_con`, `soce_abs`... etc. from the `app/nemo/file/file_def_nemo-oce.xml`
as denoted by the source codes of NEMO:
```
      IF( kt == nit000 ) THEN
         IF( ln_TEOS10 ) THEN
            ! toce_pot, sst_pot and tosmint_pot diagnostics, converted from conservative temperature, are output by
            ! dia_ar5 as part of the base NEMO code- do not raise an error if these are requested.
            IF ( iom_use("soce_pra") .OR. iom_use("sss_pra") .OR. iom_use("sbt_pot") .OR. iom_use("sbs_pra") .OR. &
               & iom_use("sstgrad_pot") .OR. iom_use("sstgrad2_pot") .OR. iom_use("somint_pra"))  THEN
               CALL ctl_stop( 'diawri: potential temperature and practical salinity not available with ln_TEOS10' )
            ELSE
               ttype='con' ; stype='abs'   ! teos-10 using conservative temperature and absolute salinity
            ENDIF
         ELSE IF( ln_EOS80  ) THEN
            IF ( iom_use("toce_con") .OR. iom_use("soce_abs") .OR. iom_use("sst_con") .OR. iom_use("sss_abs") &
                  & .OR. iom_use("sbt_con") .OR. iom_use("sbs_abs") .OR. iom_use("sstgrad_con") .OR. iom_use("sstgrad2_con") &
                  & .OR. iom_use("tosmint_con") .OR. iom_use("somint_abs"))  THEN
               CALL ctl_stop( 'diawri: conservative temperature and absolute salinity not available with ln_EOS80' )
            ELSE
               ttype='pot' ; stype='pra'   ! eos-80 using potential temperature and practical salinity
            ENDIF
```

#### diawri: conservative temperature and absolute salinity not available with ln_EOS80
`ocean_output`
```
 ===>>> : E R R O R

          ===========

 diawri: conservative temperature and absolute salinity not available with ln_EOS80
```
This error seems to occur for the inconsistency between `EOS80` and `diawri`.
**resolution:**     
Below is the relevant source codes: `src/nemo/src/OCE/DIA/diawri.F90`
```
      IF( kt == nit000 ) THEN
         IF( ln_TEOS10 ) THEN
            ! toce_pot, sst_pot and tosmint_pot diagnostics, converted from conservative temperature, are output by
            ! dia_ar5 as part of the base NEMO code- do not raise an error if these are requested.
            IF ( iom_use("soce_pra") .OR. iom_use("sss_pra") .OR. iom_use("sbt_pot") .OR. iom_use("sbs_pra") .OR. &
               & iom_use("sstgrad_pot") .OR. iom_use("sstgrad2_pot") .OR. iom_use("somint_pra"))  THEN
               CALL ctl_stop( 'diawri: potential temperature and practical salinity not available with ln_TEOS10' )
            ELSE
               ttype='con' ; stype='abs'   ! teos-10 using conservative temperature and absolute salinity
            ENDIF
         ELSE IF( ln_EOS80  ) THEN
            IF ( iom_use("toce_con") .OR. iom_use("soce_abs") .OR. iom_use("sst_con") .OR. iom_use("sss_abs") &
                  & .OR. iom_use("sbt_con") .OR. iom_use("sbs_abs") .OR. iom_use("sstgrad_con") .OR. iom_use("sstgrad2_con") &
                  & .OR. iom_use("tosmint_con") .OR. iom_use("somint_abs"))  THEN
               CALL ctl_stop( 'diawri: conservative temperature and absolute salinity not available with ln_EOS80' )
            ELSE
               ttype='pot' ; stype='pra'   ! eos-80 using potential temperature and practical salinity
            ENDIF
```
We should exclude `toce_con`, `soce_abs`... etc. from the `app/nemo/file/file_def_nemo-oce.xml`


#### ice_rst_read: you are attempting to use an unsuitable ice restart
```
  ===>>> : W A R N I N G

          ===============

 ice_rst_read: you are attempting to use an unsuitable ice restart


  ===>>> : E R R O R

          ===========

 STOP
 ice_rst_read: you need ln_ice_ini=T and nn_iceini_file=0 or 1


 huge E-R-R-O-R : immediate stop
```

it is possiblly caused by the inconsistence bettween cice restart file and si3 restart file.     
related source codes:
```
   INTEGER, PUBLIC  ::   nn_iceini_file   !: Ice initialization:
                                  !        0 = Initialise sea ice based on SSTs
                                  !        1 = Initialise sea ice from single category netcdf file
                                  !        2 = Initialise sea ice from multi category restart file
```
**resolution**:      
set the `nn_iceini_file` as 0 at `si3 > namelist > namini` 

#### dia_hsb_init: iom_varid, file: ./restart.nc, var: * not found
```
 dia_hsb_init : heat and salt budgets diagnostics
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~
    Namelist  namhsb :
       check the heat and salt budgets (T) or not (F)       ln_diahsb =  T

    dia_hsb_rst : read hsb restart at it=  1  date=  32010101


  ===>>> : E R R O R

          ===========

 iom_varid, file: ./restart.nc, var: frc_v not found


  ===>>> : E R R O R

```
**resolution**     
switch off `ln_diahsb` at `nemo > namelist > diagnostics > Heat and Sait budgets`

#### misspelled variable in namelist namdrg in configuration namelist iostat =  4324
Comparing the u-dv344 (PI) and u-dv769, I found the differences stem from the auto-fix of **rose editor Gui**. Double check before doing the auto-fix.

#### lib-4411 : UNRECOVERABLE library error
```
lib-4411 : UNRECOVERABLE library error
  An allocatable array in the ALLOCATE statement is already allocated.
```
and the UM output blocked after the step `Reading spectral files` where should be `Allocating runoff_points`      
**resolution**    
Keep `{your rose suite}/app/coupled/file` only contain one `namcouple`. I encountered it because I left some other versions of `namcouple` in this directory.

#### runoff mismatch between namcouple and namelist
debug.root.03 
```
(oasis_init_comp) OASIS RUNNING 
(oasis_init_comp) OPEN debug file for pe, unit : 0 9999 
(oasis_coupler_setup) ERROR: namcouple variable not used: runoffa
(oasis_abort) ABORT: file = /home/users/harry.shepherd/cylc-run/infrastructure_suite_deploy_login.exa.sc/share/oasis3-mct/lib/psmile/src/mod_oasis_coupler.F90
(oasis_abort) ABORT: line = 1150
(oasis_abort) ABORT: on model = xios.x
(oasis_abort) ABORT: on global rank = 186
(oasis_abort) ABORT: on local rank = 0
(oasis_abort) ABORT: CALLING ABORT FROM OASIS LAYER NOW
```
**resolution**
check the `app/coupled/file/namcouple`. For 2D method, the {your rose suite}/app/coupled/file/namcouple should include the codes below:
```
668 ############################################################################
669 # No longer reverse the sign of runoff
670 # TRANSDEF: ATMT OCNT 58 3 1 ######################################################
671  runoff model01_O_Runoff 32 10800 1 atmos_restart.nc   EXPORTED
672  192 144 362 332 atm3 tor1 SEQ=+2
673  P  0  P  2
674 #
675  MAPPING
676 #
677  rmp_atm3_to_tor1_CONSERV_DESTAREA.nc
678 #
679 ############################################################################
```
#### empty output stream id
```
Contents of namelist nlstcall_pp
reinit_end   = 0
reinit_step  = 30
reinit_start = 0
reinit_unit  = 2
filename_base    =
reserved_headers = 0
packing  = 0
l_reinit = F
filename =
file_id  =
- - - - - - end of namelist - - - - - -
FILE_MANAGER: Assigned :
FILE_MANAGER:          : id   :
FILE_MANAGER:          : Unit :  18 (portio)
```
**resolution:**
check the **nlstcall_pp** at `app/um/rose-app.conf`. Please also check the files in `opt`


#### Error message: WRITHEAD: Addressing conflict
Break at the end of first month
```
5251 FIELD DEPENDENT CONSTANTS
5252 12348 64-bit words long
5253 ******FATAL ERROR WHEN READING MODEL DUMP******
5254 Conflict between start position of lookup table
5255 Block and Pointer in Fixed Length Header: fixhd(150) =    25725
5256 Current position in file =    13377 words in
5257 ***********************************************
5258
5259????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
5260 ???!!!???!!!???!!!???!!!???!!!       ERROR        ???!!!???!!!???!!!???!!!???!!!
5261 ?  Error code: 24
5262 ?  Error from routine: WRITHEAD
5263 ?  Error message: WRITHEAD: Addressing conflict
5264 ?  Error from processor: 103
5265 ?  Error number: 16
                                                                                               5253,1        55%
5204 ?  Error code: 24
5205 ?  Error from routine: WRITHEAD
5206 ?  Error message: WRITHEAD: Addressing conflict
5207 ?  Error from processor: 302
5208 ?  Error number: 16
5209 ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????

```
**resolution:**
[a ticket for the identical issue](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk/trac/um/ticket/3616)     
[Set IntC( IC_Stochastic_flag ) to 7 in recon to force correct dump header](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk/trac/um/changeset/109053#file0)     

My diagnostics based on the source codes of UM vn13.8:     
During the model run:
- at the first timestep of UM, the subroutine **atm_step_4A** (in ./control/top_level/atm_step_4A.F90; which run every UM step) will call `allocate_sp_coefficients` or `assign_a_flddepc_input_values` (both in ./src/control/dump_io/dump_headers_mod.F90) depending on the relative size of `a_inthd(ih_stochastic_flag)`(`ih_stochastic_flag` is set to 29 at ./src/control/dump_io/dump_headers_mod.F90, a_inthd is the property `integer_constants` in the FieldsFile read by MULE, check `ff.integer_constants.raw[29]` of your dunp) and `stph_seed_present` (set as `1` in `./src/atmosphere/stochastic_physics/stochastic_physics_run_mod.F90`).
- If the `allocate_sp_coefficients` is called, which means `ff.integer_constants.raw[29]`<=1, the model will directly recalcilate the field of constants, and add their size to fixhd(150). Otherwise, the `assign_a_flddepc_input_values` will be called, which means `ff.integer_constants.raw[29]`>1, the model will remove the old `size of the field of constants`(a_fixhd(126)) from the a_fixhd(150) and add the new size to it.
- In the old UM dump, the `ff.integer_constants.raw[29]` is set as 1. Therefore the `allocate_sp_coefficients` is used. Which caused the surplus add of the `a_fixhd(126)` to the a_fixhd(150).
- Later, dumpctl (in ./src/control/top_level/dumpctl.F90) calls um_writdump (in ./src/control/dump_io/um_writdump.F90).    
- um_writdump uses the global a_fixhd as its local fixhd argument and calls writhead (in ./src/control/dump_io/writhead.F90).    
- Inside writhead, fixhd(150) is checked against start_block. Due to the earlier double write, the values do not match, triggering an error.    
```
atm_step_4A
     └─> allocate_sp_coefficients
          └─> updates a_fixhd(150) incorrectly
dumpctl
     └─> um_writdump
          ├─> receives a_fixhd as fixhd
          └─> writhead
               └─> checks fixhd(150) vs start_block
                    └─> error triggered if mismatch
```

To resolve the issue, use the `mule` to modify the ff.integer_constants.raw[29] as a integer larger than 1 (for example:7).
```
import mule
ff=mule.UMFile.from_file("cz006a.da24010101_00")
ff.integer_constants.raw[29]=7
ff.to_file("cz006a.da24010101_00_header_modified")
```



#### sbc_isf_init: wrong value of nn_isf
This error occured when I set the `nn_isf` at `nemo > namelist > Surface Boundary Conditions (namsbc)` as **0**, which is recommended by Charlie.    
It seems to stem from that the Fortran code was changed from 'if' statements to 'case' statements in the new NEMO version, and there is no `case (0)`

**resolution:**
switch off the ice shelves module by `ln_isf` at `nemo > namelist > Surface Boudary Condition (namsbc)`

